 record # 193097 459567785 fh 08087955 197550 5 / 23 / 1998 12 : 00 : 00 am discharge summary dis admission date : 4 / 2 / 1998 report status : discharge date : 9 / 4 / 1998 principal diagnosis : 1 . severe  MED pancreatic MED  exocrine and endocrine insufficiency . problem list : 1 . severe acute pancreatitis 2 . new onset insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . 3 . hyperglycemic hyperosmolar nonketotic acidosis ( now resolved ) . 4 . acute renal failure . ( now resolved ) . 5 . rhabdomyolysis . ( now resolved ) . 6 . severe alcoholism . 7 . congenital heart block status post pacemaker placement in 1980 . 8 . coronary artery disease status post silent imi in 1988 . 9 . history of dilated cardiomyopathy congestive heart failure last echo performed on 20 of september with an estimated ejection fraction of 50 % . 10 . hypertension . 11 . hypercholesterolemia . 12 . status post left nephrectomy  second ary to nephrolithiasis . 13 . history of gerd . 14 . history of spinal stenosis lower extremity pain and sciatica . 15 . peripheral vascular disease with claudication . 16 . status post appendectomy . 17 . history of recurrent urinary tract infections . 18 . history of medical nonadherence . history of present illness : the patient a 60 year old african - american gentleman with a medical history severe alcoholism and coronary artery disease congestive heart failure who at baseline shortness of breath dyspnea exertion and at times paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea also orthopnea . he a history of medical nonadherence noncompliance . the patient four days prior to admission 23 of august to his primary care physician dr . dubrey with a cough chills but no fever myalgias pleuritic chest pain and weight loss of 9 lb from 167 to 158 three months with paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . the patient not his congestive heart failure / cardiac medications for at least one week . a chest x - ray at that time negative for pneumonia but suggestive congestive heart failure . he also with a  probably  uri . his congestive heart failure medications . a ppd at that time . the patient not antibiotics . the patient progressive malaise anorexia unable to out of poor p . o . he any alcohol abuse at that time . there no abdominal pain per the patient   but there that the patient   mental status . he more lethargic and by his with shortness of breath and emts who the patient to  somewhat  somnolent but arousable with a blood glucose of 483 blood pressure 110 / palp . he to the tabell aleretsentla medical center emergency room . the emergency room he and times two with temperature of 89 rectally blood pressure 120 / 68 respiratory rate 28 o2 of 100 % 100 % face mask . an arterial blood gases ph 7.13 po2 326 pco2 28 . acetest positive . betahydroxy butyrate of 1.66 . serum glucose negative at 1800 with an anion gap of 27 serum  MED sodium MED  129 serum  MED potassium MED  7.6 bun 178 and a creatinine 7.5 . the patient with one liter of normal saline MODE MODE iv MODE MODE over five hours 20 UNIT units UNIT of MODE MODE iv MODE MODE insulin two amps of bicarb 30 UNIT grams UNIT of kayexalate one amp of  MED calcium MED  gluconate solu - cortef 100 UNIT mg UNIT ceftriaxone two UNIT grams UNIT MODE MODE iv MODE MODE . the patient   mental status markedly after the hydration . the patient then to the medical intensive care UNIT unit UNIT for treatment evaluation . past medical history :  please  problem list above . also of note the patient a history of severe alcoholism any preadmission alcohol binges at that time ; but later to of one to two gallons of gin and vodka at a time with his and also many beers . at baseline the patient some shortness of breath dyspnea exertion orthopnea and at times paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea . his last echo previously the one done this admission 1 / 10 which an ejection fraction of approximately 30 % with anteroseptal hk posterior lateral hk inferior ak 1 + mr and ar and an ett mibi 1 of january imi ischemia .  however  an echo  during  this admission an approximate ejection fraction of 50 % with inferior and septal hk only and mild aortic insufficiency and mitral regurgitation . allergies : no drug allergies . medications : admission -  enteric   MED aspirin MED  325 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d . MED lasix MED 40 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d . MODE sl MODE  MED nitroglycerin MED  p . r . n . MED imdur MED 60 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d .  MED lisinopril MED  20 UNIT mg UNIT naprosyn 500 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . b . i . d . p . r . n .  MED digoxin MED  0.25 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d . social history : the patient as above a history of severe alcoholism and at least to a month prior to his presentation . he a history of one pack of tobacco per day times 30 years . the patient lives with his and " step - daughter " montesonnixcape broke sonpo family history : positive for coronary artery disease and also positive for diabetes mellitus his sister and mother and his mother also " cancer " . physical examination : vital signs - temperature 94.0 pulse 78 and regular blood pressure 100 / 66 o2 100 % saturation 100 % facemask . respiratory rate 28 . in general the patient responsive to voice and to en hospital and said 1997 . head eyes ears nose and throat exam that he anicteric . extraocular movements intact . pupils equal round reactive to light 2 mm . oropharynx dry . there no jugular venous distention and low lymphadenopathy . the neck supple . lungs - had few bibasilar greater the right . cardiovascular - regular rate and rhythm with positive ectopy no murmur regurg or gallop . his abdomen soft diffusely tender mildly with positive bowel sounds with no liver edge . he heme negative the emergency room with no rebound . extremities - trace edema bilaterally and  somewhat  cool . his skin no petechiae no rash and no splinters . neurological - he able to all extremities . his reflexes 2 the upper and lower extremities  except  for the left ankle which 1 and his right ankle 0 . his left toe . his right toe equivocal . laboratory data : significant for a wbc of 11 hematocrit normal at 43 platelets 160 . significant for bandemia of 14 81 polys inr 1.3 sma - 7 significant for a serum  MED sodium MED  of 129  MED potassium MED  7.6 chloride of 91 bicarb of 11 bun of 178 creatinine of 7.5 glucose of 1800 . his ck 126 troponion - i 0 . lipase 22 610 amylase 2840 . liver function tests  within  normal limits alt of 11 ast of 10 ldh 174 alk phos of 11 t - bili of 0.4 albumin of 3.5  MED calcium MED  9.3 . phos at 12.8  MED magnesium MED  at 5.2 . ua 19.5 . acetest positive . a betahydroxybutyrate 1.66 .  MED digoxin MED  level 0.8 tox screen negative . ua - 0 - 1 wbcs sg of 1.023 . ekg ventricular at a rate of 77 . chest x - ray no pulmonary edema or infiltrates or effusions . hospital  course  : the patient to the medical intensive care UNIT unit UNIT for  further  treatment evaluation of his severe metabolic abnormalities . he also by labs he a significant severe pancreatitis and to  either  a dka or hhnka . an endocrine consult and they that the patient  likely  not dka as the patient   level of betahydroxybutyrate of 1.66 not to the patient   gap or all his metabolic disturbances . the endocrine service that more  likely  the patient hyperglycemic hyperosmolar nonketotic acidosis and also severe pancreatitis . initial screens for the of pancreatitis negative stones . the patient significant alcohol history and alcohol which the most  likely  of his severe  MED pancreatic MED  insufficiency . the patient aggressively with MODE MODE iv MODE MODE fluids and his metabolic abnormalities to correct . he also by labs to acute renal failure and a renal consult . the patient   nonoliguric renal failure the of severe dehydration  second ary to hyperosmolar state and ace inhibitors most  likely  due to atn . a renal ultrasound 12 of january no evidence of gallstones or biliary duct dilatation . an abdominal ct 20 of february grade i pancreatitis with no evidence of a pseudocyst . the patient   clinical  course  by rhabdomyolysis which to due to a hypophosphatemic state but this not completely clear as the patient   cks to rise while the patient   phosphate still  second ary to the acute renal failure . the patient   cks  around  10 000 and then to steadily and the patient   renal function with hydration steadily as his creatinine and bun to normal .  however  the night of 20 of september the patient   abdominal pain and there a question of peritoneal signs which an emergent exploratory laparotomy to rule out abdominal ischemia .  however  the findings not consistent with ischemic bowel but only severe pancreatitis . on 13 of september and 20 of september the patient very well postoperatively back the medical intensive care UNIT unit UNIT . he tpn and with a slow wean of his of dextrose his blood sugars . on 20 of september the patient   renal function also . the patient by 24 of november abdominal pain electrolytes and his renal function at his baseline with a creatinine of 1.0 . the patient out of the medical intensive care UNIT unit UNIT to our service 21 of april tpn and the medications : 1 .  MED digoxin MED  0.375 UNIT mg UNIT . d . 2 . carafate one UNIT gram UNIT b . i . d . 3 . albuterol two UNIT puffs UNIT t . i . d . 4 .  MED aspirin MED  325 UNIT mg UNIT . d . he also tpn but to a clear liquid diet and to it well . he also to a large amount of insulin  through  his tpn and also  through  his scale . the patient well and able to a clear liquid diet and the next two days to a soft solid diet with very low fat . i the rest of the patient   events assessment and plan by problem list as : 1 . gi : i . severe pancreatitis : the patient able to to a soft solid diet for the past few days . she abdominal pain which  almost  and then and the patient a watery diarrhea . it that this due to  MED pancreatic MED  insufficiency versus c . diff colitis and  therefore  c . diff samples sent and the patient presumptively flagyl and pancrease 12 000 UNIT units UNIT t . i . d . 1 / 2 hour  before  meals . the patient   abdominal pain and diarrhea . this us to the patient n . p . o . once more and  another  abdominal ct . an abdominal ct 9 of august progression of pancreatitis with increase inflammatory  changes  . there no necrosis or pseudocyst formation . also some significant small bowel dilatation  without  any evidence of obstruction .  therefore  the patient to kept n . p . o . and tpn 9 of january . the patient this well and at this time no longer any abdominal pain  either  subjectively or exam . it occasionally mild low back pain which to  actually  due to his pancreatitis as to any musculoskeletal . ii . diarrhea : the patient also diarrhea as above . he up extensively . his diarrhea now . he c . diff negative but presumptively with flagyl for seve DRT n days DRT  . all stool studies shigella salmonella campylobacter ova and parasites microsporidia negative . his stool sent for quantitative fecal fast which still discharge . he repeatedly guaiac negative . as above his diarrhea . iii . resolved heme positivity : the patient earlier the  course  of his intensive care UNIT unit UNIT stay some stools that heme positive . they to due to gastritis . he now initially after that prilosec and now over to his tpn and multiple guaiac negative stools the past te DRT n days DRT  . MODE MODE iv MODE MODE . small perianal ulcer : the patient to a small perianal ulcer . it to  second ary to pressure from and also  second ary to his multiple episodes of diarrhea which for days . it that this . if it not it that the ulcer and sent for hsv . 2 . endocrine : i . insulin dependent diabetes mellitus : due to the patient    MED pancreatic MED  insufficiency the patient a life long diabetic . the patient by the endocrine service and now 45 UNIT units UNIT of insulin per liter  through  his tpn . he also a scale regular regimen with finger stick q6h . it that this a  relatively  stable regimen for him at this time . as the patient off his tpn and to p . o . again he over to nph b . i . d . with regular insulin checks a scale  before  his meals . the patient also a follow - up appointment with the diabetes clinic three weeks as below . 3 . cardiovascular : the patient a history of congestive heart failure and mild bi - basilar  through out his stay here . this not him any way . he a good oxygen saturations . the patient to 40 UNIT mg UNIT of MED lasix MED p . o . . d . on the day of discharge he an extra 20 UNIT mg UNIT MODE MODE iv MODE MODE as he i & amp ; os positive for the last few days and we a slightly more his exam . of note the patient a long history of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea but  relatively  well here . his current medical regimen isordil 10 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . t . i . d .  MED captopril MED  6.25 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . t . i . d . both of these upwards as his blood pressure . he some labile blood pressures  anywhere  from the systolics of 80s to 130s while the hospital and he never symptomatic and even when he he blood pressures the 80s and this well . he also  MED digoxin MED  0.375 UNIT mg UNIT . d . he also  MED aspirin MED  for his cardiac regimen . 4 . pulmonary : the patient good o2 saturations and  usually  from 95 to 97 % room air and no pulmonary problems . he bibasilar exam which to due to some mild congestive heart failure for which he MED lasix MED . he some extra doses of MED lasix MED per your directions the next few days . 5 . heme : the patient   hematocrit low the high 20s two occasions . in both cases  always  down slowly to due to delutional effects plus repeat a phlebotomy . he a total of three UNIT units UNIT while he the hospital here .  otherwise  hematocrit stable for multiple days so his platelets . also of note the patient heme negative from below for more than te DRT n days DRT  . 6 . renal : the patient his baseline creatinine which his acute renal failure . 7 . rhabdomyolysis : this also with the patient   cks over a week ago . 8 . infectious disease : the patient afebrile normal white count for many days . while here he also presumptively for c . diff which  actually  to negative his stool examinations with no fecal leukocytes . the patient   temperature curve that the patient to pancreatitis and at risk for a phlegmon . assessment and plan : 1 . severe pancreatitis : the patient to tpn . a picc line and a triple lumen catheter prior to transfer of the patient . it our that the patient tpn for the next two days and then as per your directions the patient slowly a p . o . diet as . we that the patient  another  trial to if he p . o .  before  any long term decisions his nutrition and  perhaps  placement of a j - tube for long term . the patient   amylase and lipase the day of discharge 47 for amylase and 166 for lipase . these values to low even when the patient abdominal pain . this to due to a  relatively  out pancreas . a gi consult also which agrees with this assessment . it that when the patient start p . o . again he pancreas at least 8 to 12 000 UNIT units UNIT t . i . d . half hour  before  meals due to his  MED pancreatic MED  exocrine insufficiency . also the patient clinically very closely his white count fever curve and his abdominal exam for any signs and symptoms of development of an infection or phlegmon or pseudocyst  because  of his pancreatitis . the patient   tpn as below . 2 . endocrine insufficiency : the patient as above insulin both  through  tpn and his fingersticks every six hours . as when the patient over to a p . o . regimen we per endocrine recommendations that nph b . i . d . and the patient with an insulin scale at bedtime . the patient to redist nalereamer memorial hospital 25 of august good condition . the patient today any abdominal pain nausea or but occasionally to mild back pain . his diarrhea . he afebrile with a blood pressure of 120 / 70 pulse 69 respiratory rate 16 sat 97 room air with a weight of 69.0 kg . he comfortable and bibasilar of 1 / 4 the way up . his abdomen soft nontender with positive bowel sounds . his extremities  without  edema . on the day of discharge his white count 8.8 hematocrit 36 addplatelets of 348 . his sma - 7  within  normal limits with a creatinine of 0.6 . his amylase 47 and his lipase 160 . disposition : the patient good condition to lakesfic hospital medical center . his primary care physician dr . littmann aware of the patient   discharge and to follow with his care . the patient also an appointment with dr . sanislo the diabetes clinic at longa ent no 1 of may at 11 a . m . discharge medications : 1 .  MED aspirin MED  325 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d . 2 . albuterol two UNIT puffs UNIT . i . d . 3 .  MED digoxin MED  0.375 UNIT mg UNIT . d . 4 . MED lasix MED 40 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . . d . 5 .  MED captopril MED  6.25 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . t . i . d . 6 . isordil 10 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . t . i . d . 7 .  MED magnesium MED  and  MED potassium MED  scale  through  ivs while here . diet : the patient n . p . o . for the next two days . his tpn orders upon discharge as : he a total of 2 liters per day at a rate of 83.3 ml per hour constantly . he a central solution of 5 % aminoacid 18 % dextrose 400 lipids k - calories per day . his aminoacid  through  a novamine solution . his acetate 0 % his  MED sodium MED  30 UNIT UNIT meq UNIT UNIT per liter  MED magnesium MED  10 UNIT UNIT meq UNIT UNIT per liter  MED potassium MED  50 UNIT UNIT meq UNIT UNIT per liter phosphate 10 millimoles per liter . trace elements 1 millimoles per day  MED vitamin MED  k 10 UNIT mg UNIT . mondays mvi 10 ml per day  MED calcium MED  94 UNIT mg UNIT per liter . his insulin the tpn 45 UNIT units UNIT per liter of tpn . there also 150 UNIT mg UNIT per liter of tpn . also addition to this he 10 UNIT mg UNIT of thiamine every tuesday thursday saturday and sunday 800 UNIT mcg UNIT of every monday wednesday and friday and also 100 UNIT mcg UNIT of b - 12 . thursday  through  his tpn . condition on discharge : good . operations  during  admission : exploratory laparotomy 20 of september  without  complications . by : austin amendola m . d . bi80 : e . bromberg m . d . sf41 ed166 / 6793 batch : 9436 index no . jgczy10rm7 d : 0 / 7 / 98 t : 0 / 7 / 98 UNIT cc UNIT : 1 . bassash hospital and medical center [ report _ end ]