 record # 191800 131401994 oh 47675630 383653 4 / 12 / 1992 12 : 00 : 00 am discharge summary dis admission date : 4 / 12 / 1992 report status : discharge date : 2 / 29 / 1992 admission diagnosis : chest pain .  second ary diagnosis is cerebral palsy with mental retardation . history of present illness : the patient a 27 year old black man with a history of cerebral palsy and mental retardation who now with chest pain of three days duration . his cardiac risk factors positive family history and a history of hypertension . he not smoke tobacco and no history of diabetes . note that the patient a very poor historian ,  however  ,  through  his mother , he of approximately three weeks of fatigue and malaise . the week prior to admission , he a single episode of chest pain " work " (  actually  his day activity center ) which spontaneously . three days prior to admission , the patient poorly chest pain with diaphoresis . this pain worse with deep inspiration and , in addition , he nausea and malaise with shortness of breath . this pain waxed and over the day and not exertional in nature . he childmiltrich health care where no laboratories and he to - up on friday . one day  before  admission , the patient chest pain to the left upper arm with numbness in that extremity . he nausea and occasional diaphoresis . he echocardiogram on that day tal hospital which mild left ventricular hypertrophy but no regional wall motion abnormality and  otherwise  normal . on the day of admission , the patient of severity of chest pain with shortness of breath . he " sick " but or diaphoresis . he to the sta medical center emergency room where he to of chest pain to the left  should er as well as into the abdomen . this symptom with inspiration as well as with central sternal palpation . at baseline , the patient  little  exercise  second ary to his cerebral palsy , he three - pillow orthopnea but no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and he no prior episodes of chest pain  except  as above . past medical history : significant for cerebral palsy as above and also for pneumonia in 1986 . current medications : he no medications . allergies : he no allergies . social history : he not smoke tobacco , he not alcohol , and he not intravenous drugs . he a regular church goer , he lives with his mother , and FREQ a day FREQ rehabilitation care center . family history : significant for angina in his mother and a grandfather with coronary artery disease . physical examination : he afebrile , his blood pressure 160 / 130 , heart rate 65 , respiratory rate 20 , and he 98 % on room air . he obese black man in no acute distress . skin : clear . heent : the oropharynx clear , there no jugular venous distention , carotids 2 + and equal , pupils equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation , and the neck supple  without  lymphadenopathy . the fundi not well  second ary to poor cooperation . lungs : clear to auscultation . cardiac : there a regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 heard , and there a ii / vi systolic ejection murmur the left upper sternal border . abdomen : obese with positive bowel sounds , it non - tender , slightly tympanitic , there no hepatosplenomegaly , and the patient guaiac negative . extremities : examination no , cyanosis , or edema . there no focal tenderness and pulses intact bilaterally . neurological : he and times three and he unable to simple calculations ,  however  , cranial nerves ii - xii intact . sensory and motor in the upper and lower extremities  within  normal limits , reflexes brisk and symmetric , and toes down . laboratory examination : ekg normal sinus rhythm with axis of 0 degrees and normal intravals . there left ventricular hypertrophy by voltage in avl and there no acute st or t wave  changes  ,  however  , there no old ekg for comparison . an sma 7 benign , a ck on admission 283 with 10 mb , white count 9.4 , and urinalysis negative . chest x - ray initially evidence of pulmonary vascular redistribution ,  however  , a repeat chest x - ray hour later clear . hospital  course  : the patient to the floor and his  rather  indistinct complaints , a broad - work - up a rule out for myocardial infarction .  al though   the patient to ck with mb , these electrophoresed and not to mb . there the pleuritic nature of his chest pain that the patient a pulmonary embolism . lower extremity non - invasives negative as a vq scan . the patient on cardiac monitor until his rule out for myocardial infarction complete .  through out his hospitalization , the patient to of diffuse body pain as well as " sick " ,  however  , he to afebrile with normal laboratories . on the  second  hospital day , the patient aware of the fact that his mother to  outside  hospital for a rule out myocardial infarction . he quite and that time of abdominal pain . he with laxatives and reassurance and . on the fourth hospital day , it that the patient not from any  serious  illness and that the most dangerous entities out . it that he most  likely  from a viral flu syndrome . his blood pressure with a beta blocker and he in stable condition to home . disposition : discharge medications :  MED atenolol MED  2.5 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . q . d . ,  MED nifedipine MED  xl 30 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . q . d . , and pepcid 20 UNIT mg UNIT p . o . b . i . d . he - up with dr . fugatt in haysc hospital clinic in one month   s time . op924 / 3066 tad c . shelby , m . d . fq5 d : 10 / 14 / 92 batch : 3288 report : x0566d9 t : 11 / 6 / 92 by : collin mohorovich , m . d . [ report _ end ]